IntermediateReport.md, before:

### Team Members

Sai Divya Sangeetha Bhagavatula

Maanasa Kaza

Prajakta Rodrigues

Anugraha Venugopal

Github Classroom Repo: https://github.com/2020-F-CS6240/project-group3

### Project Overview

During the This is a classification problem to distinguish between a signal process which produces Higgs bosons and a background process which does not.

### Input Data

The data has been produced using Monte Carlo simulations. The first 21 features (columns 2-22) are kinematic properties measured by the particle detectors in the accelerator. The last seven features are functions of the first 21 features; these are high-level features derived by physicists to help discriminate between the two classes. There is an interest in using deep learning methods to obviate the need for physicists to manually develop such features. Benchmark results using Bayesian Decision Trees from a standard physics package and 5-layer neural networks are presented in the original paper. The last 500,000 examples are used as a test set.

The first column is the class label (1 for signal, 0 for background), followed by the 28 features (21 low-level features then 7 high-level features): lepton pT, lepton eta, lepton phi, missing energy magnitude, missing energy phi, jet 1 pt, jet 1 eta, jet 1 phi, jet 1 b-tag, jet 2 pt, jet 2 eta, jet 2 phi, jet 2 b-tag, jet 3 pt, jet 3 eta, jet 3 phi, jet 3 b-tag, jet 4 pt, jet 4 eta, jet 4 phi, jet 4 b-tag, m_jj, m_jjj, m_lv, m_jlv, m_bb, m_wbb, m_wwbb.

### Task Name: Decision trees (MapReduce)


### Overview


### Pseudo-Code


### Algorithm and Program Analysis


### Experiments


### Speedup


### Scalability


### Result Sample


### Conclusions

Commit message:

Update project overview & input data description

IntermediateReport.md, after:

### Team Members

Sai Divya Sangeetha Bhagavatula

Maanasa Kaza

Prajakta Rodrigues

Anugraha Venugopal

Github Classroom Repo: https://github.com/2020-F-CS6240/project-group3

### Project Overview

High-energy particle colliders such as the Large Hadron Collider employed at CERN, the nuclear research centre, sometimes produce rare particles during collisions. These often lead to highly important scientific discoveries, making it essential to be able to identify these particles when they do form. However, most of the time, a lot of “background noise” is produced along with the “signal” - i.e., a lot of other particles, perhaps not of immediate interest in the ongoing research, are produced alongside the relevant ones. Consider the Higgs boson, a particle that gained widespread fame for explaining a major facet of why particles possess mass. When the Higgs boson is produced in a high-energy particle collider, it is often produced alongside a much larger proportion of particles not of interest. In our project, we look at this as a classification problem to differentiate between the process producing the Higgs bosons (signal process) and the process producing the noise (background process) We use a single decision tree trained on a very large data set in parallel to implement the binary classification.

### Input Data

The data has been produced using Monte Carlo simulations. It consists of 11,000,000 instances (rows) and 28 attributes (columns). The first column is the class label (1 for signal, 0 for background). The next 21 columns are kinematic properties measured by the particle detectors in the accelerator. The last 6 features are functions of the first 21 features; these are high-level derived features used to help discriminate between the two classes. The last 500,000 examples are used as a test set. All the data values are real numbers. 

### Task Name: Decision trees (MapReduce)


### Overview


### Pseudo-Code


### Algorithm and Program Analysis


### Experiments


### Speedup


### Scalability


### Result Sample


### Conclusions
